he says I stand at the door and knock
and if any man hears my voice and opens
the door I'll come in with him I'll sit
down with him if you hear him knocking
on that door and you walk up you open it
and you let him in that is what that
means you have invited him into your
house let's call your body this is my
house he he won't knock Forever at some
point if you reject him long enough it
says he'll just turn you over to your
desires and go well we gave it a good
shot move on
it's very simple you don't need a
preacher you don't need a priest you
don't need
anybody open the
[Music]
door hello everybody so I had the
privilege of speaking with musician John
Rich today and we really focused on a
new song he released called Revelation
and I guess we hit that from two
different perspectives because by John's
testimony the song came to him like a
revelation the lyrics and the music sort
of pre-made and that's a fairly common
phenomena um among expert musicians and
I wanted to delve into the psychological
preconditions for that to occur it's a
very religiously oriented song and so we
talked about his movement away from the
typical Studio musician relationship and
his foray into being an independent
musician why that happened and what it
meant and how it freed him up creatively
and we also talked about the
psychological and Theological or
spiritual implications of the song
because the song itself
Revelation is a what is it it's a it's a
revelation of the Spirit of the book by
that name and so we talked about all of
that and uh and the personal elements of
it too because Rich regards himself as
somewhat of a prodigal son who went way
out as a young man into the domain of
extreme Temptation and then straightened
out his life and so we also discussed
why he did that and how he realized that
that was necessary and what that has
meant to him as a man and as a father as
a musician and as a uh what would as as
an agent of public influence as well
so join us for that hello sir well we
might as well jump right into this I
listen to your song Revelation three or
4 times on the way over here and I guess
I'm kind of curious you you made some uh
you made some references to it making
the case that it came kind of came to
you in a way that was different if I
understand properly it was different
from many of the songs that you've read
written and so you want to lay out the
structure of the song for people who
haven't heard it yet and then we can we
can talk about the inspiration behind it
and also what it is that you're trying
to either understand or convey well
first of all thanks for having me on
I've watched you a long time and uh I've
written over 2,000 songs in my career so
I'm I'm 50 I started right uh on the
road at 19 years old so I've got 31
years of of being on the road and
writing songs and making music videos
and all those things and this particular
song um it was November of 2023 minding
my own business not thinking about
writing a a song of any type much less
this one and out of nowhere it felt like
a it felt like a almost like a wave hit
me from behind like a something you
didn't expect felt like a hammer hit me
in the back of the head and I had this
Melody with these lyrics rolling with it
firmly implanted in my mind almost like
almost like a a download that hit my
brain and it was saying oh Revelation I
can feel it coming like a dark Train
Running Oh get ready cuz the king is
coming the king is coming back again and
it just was rolling over and over almost
like when you've heard a song before and
it gets stuck in your head that's what
it felt like except this song didn't
exist except it's stuck in my head and
rolling and so
I thought okay uh I guess I should
probably write this down I mean that the
hair on my arms was standing up at that
point so I pulled a guitar Off the Wall
grabbed a pencil grabbed a notepad went
to a a quiet room in my house and I sat
down and started to write what I was
hearing in my head wrote the chorus
first and then spent some time writing
these verses and and not very much time
the song Revelation was written well
that's when you as a songwriter that's
when you you pull out your iPhone you
turn on the voice notes because you
don't want to forget what you just what
you just played so you you make a little
work tape is what we call it Nashville
you turn on the record button and I I
sang it into the phone and then put my
earbuds in and just walked around the
house listening to it over and over and
over again and I had this just this like
basically chills all over myself hearing
this thing coming back cuz I felt like I
didn't even write that truly that's what
it like where did this come from how did
why did this happen where did it come
from and after about an hour of
listening to it walked over to the
window of my house and I I looked up and
I said what do you want me to do with
this because this is this is not this is
not a hit song like this is not
something you would write ever and if
you did you definitely wouldn't probably
put that out what do you want me to do
with it because I knew where it came
from and the message I got back the
phrase that that hit me was take it all
the the way to the mat take it all the
way meaning what I took from that was
every bit of skill you've got every bit
of knowhow you have over these past 30
plus years make that audio as great as
you possibly can and make a video that
is as compelling as you can possibly
come up with and when you get those two
things done blast it out to the world as
wide and as far and as loud as you
possibly can that was the task I felt
like I'd been tasked with this and so
wrote the song in November in February
of 24 we shot this video which if if
people haven't seen this video I urge
you after this interview to go find it
it's just look up John Rich Revelation
and you'll find it and the video is
depicting spiritual warfare it's
depicting what's going on on the other
side of what the Bible calls the veil if
you could see on the other side of the
veil what would that look like what
would it look like to see good and evil
actually battling it out outside of the
Physical Realm so the video is actually
my attempt anyway of of showing people
what it would look like if that was
happening so we got that done and then
then the thought was okay how do we get
this out there because I don't have a
record deal I don't have a publishing
deal I don't work for anybody doctor
nobody which I used to think was a bad
thing you know when you grow up your
whole life and and you're you're
American Dream as I want to land a big
record deal I want to be on country
radio I want to write hit songs which I
did all those things and so to not be on
a record label to step away from that
industry uh at the time seemed like a
terrible thing but what I've realized
especially with a song like
Revelation is that if I still had a
record deal if I was still answering to
a big company this song would have never
been heard by anyone they they would
have taken this song shoved it off on a
shelf and said okay cool song John what
else you got they would have never
promoted this so I don't have that
physical machine behind me but I I do
have a spiritual machine behind me and I
did I did what he told me to do he gave
me the song he told me to make it as
great as I could I did that then he said
blast it out there so I did that so at
that point I said all right what's on
you
now do do what you will you're you're my
uh you're my booking agent and you're my
marketing director so I have at it boss
and next thing I know doctor this thing
has got millions and millions of views
Tucker Carlson is calling I'm going on
his show did his show people like
yourself start start reaching out going
hey let's talk about this for a minute
and then online it's unbelievable what
is what has happened with this and I
think that speaks to the nature of where
it came from that it was it it was
thrust upon me and trust me it's it's
somewhat of an unnerving experience uh
to take a song like that about that
subject and just blast it right out
especially knowing how our culture works
these days and and uh how much uh how
much push back you're going to get from
people or look at you funny or whatever
but nevertheless I was told to do it so
I did it so that that brings us to this
conversation where you know to me this
song is what it is and it says a lot I
mean it says a whole lot and we can go
through those lyrics what it's really
done is it it it crowbarred the door
open just enough where we get to have
the big conversation the really big more
than just a three and a half minute song
we get to go in depth now and talk about
what that song really means and where we
really are today well let's do that I I
I got a couple of questions from what
you from what you just said but then I
would like to walk through it um lyric
by lyric and and discuss that I think
that would be very very interesting mean
um I do some piano improvisation for
what it's worth and one of the things
I've noticed that's quite strange is
that if I haven't played for a while and
I sit down I usually have something new
right at hand it's as if there's
something operating in the background
that's continually working that I'm not
really aware of but that's available
like I only play a I suppose every
couple of weeks because I'm on the road
so much and moving around but there is a
stream of Melody that's running in the
back of my mind it appears to be
constant in some ways because it's there
when I when I play and that's that's
very interesting it's interesting to
speculate about why that might be the
case you said with this song that it was
both Melody and lyrics that came to you
and you said that that was different
from other experiences of musical
writing you've had so I would like to
know how it differed but I'd also like
to know there's something else you said
that's quite curious which is that when
you wrote the song and perhaps at the
moment I don't know your your uh
contractual Arrangements at the moment
but that you're not beholden to any
record label or any industry and so I
guess one of the things you might
suppose is that that you think that
freed up your creative imagination in a
way that was new and and allowed this to
sort of spring forth like do do you
think there's a relationship between the
fact that you're not bound by industry
contractual obligations or even by the
necessity of serving a particular Market
that increase the probability that you
would have a song like this enter the
theater of your
imagination yes so let let me take those
questions so F first question is um why
is this D how do you normally write a
song I think basically your question
yeah yeah you know I've written over a
couple of thousand songs in my
career generally when you're when when
you're writing a song to try to write a
hit song which is what I have always
tried to do you got a particular thing
you you you kind of f looking at the
trend in my world to be country music
you're looking at the trends of of what
hit songs are sounding like right now
you look at the top 40 go what's hitting
what's not hitting and so you try to
land in that kind of a vein of a song
and then you'll sit around and think up
song titles or think up some angle of
how to come at a love song or a a sad
song or a party song or whatever it is
you're trying to write and then you'll
go after it and and you may write eight
or 10 trying to land that perfect one
that sounds like it's a hit where all
the factors about it's just got that hit
factor to it I I've also written a lot
of songs for other people so I've had
songs everybody from Taylor Swift to
Faith Hill uh Gretchen Wilson I mean if
you go look me up it's it's a lot of
songs and and and in those instances
they'll come to me and say I want you to
write me a song about that about this I
want it to sound like this and talk
about that and be XYZ like they gave you
really Specific Instructions as to what
they're trying to cut so I call that
sniper songwriting that's like okay they
showed me the Target now I got to find
that Target and I got to hit it with
with this song whatever that is and I've
had a lot of success doing that as well
Revelation was neither of those things
Revelation I wasn't even in a
songwriting frame of mind like you're
you're talking about your music
that that hits you as a musician
sometimes you're just in the frame of
mind it's just wow I just okay I feel
like my mind is opened up right now on
the musical side I'm I feel the incoming
it's like Tom Petty I got to sit with
Tom Petty one time uh at a uh songwriter
conference in Los Angeles and a lady out
in the audience says Mr Petty uh how do
you get your ideas for your
songs and Tom Petty goes you know he's
slouched back in the chair and he goes
well
I just stretch my antenna out there and
wait for a song to pass across it like
that he just stick my antenna out and
wait for one and there's there's a lot
of Truth to that when you're a
songwriter or a musician Revelation was
none of those things th this was
something that uh hit me out of nowhere
I used the word thrust upon me it was it
was downloaded to me um and I had no
choice but to sit down and put pencil to
paper and try to capture what this was
and and bring it into the physical all
right so number of things there
so one of the ways that you
distinguished what you had been doing
previously from whatever happened when
you produced this song or when this song
came to you was that it was funny while
you were talking I wrote down the word
Target before you said the word right so
the the one of the ways you can think
about your imagination operating is that
your imagination and your verbal
thoughts
are what would they they they search
for abstract ways of moving you forward
to a
goal and so you you specified the goal
you said that you were attempting to hit
with your more commercial work you said
you familiarize yourself with what was
popular so that means you're
communicating with your audience
comedians kind do that when they go to
their clubs before they do a big tour
and they try out jokes right you kind of
want to see what's hot in the popular
culture and and hit that and then you
said as well that you were you're
listening to Top 40 you're aiming at
something commercial and that's the
Target and that people are actually
hiring you for that so in some ways
you're harnessing your imagination to
that end and obviously that's been
extremely successful as you pointed out
because you've written you you can do
that you have the ability to do that but
it also means that and this isn't a
criticism it's an observation it also
means that you're subordinating your
creative imagination or you're directing
your creative imagination to something
approximating a commercial goal now you
know there's art there's Artistry in
that I have a friend named Greg herwitz
who very very smart guy and he writes
popular slick popular movie oriented
fiction you know and that's his Niche
and that's a valid Niche it's it's sort
of the niche that filmed Noir motive um
and and there's art in hitting that
Target squarely but that is quite a lot
different from you might say that's
quite a bit different from letting your
imagination or the Revelation take you
wherever it will now you said you know
you also didn't exactly have the luxury
so to speak to do that if you're bound
by contractual obligation to people who
expect you to produce hits and you can
understand why because things have to be
commercially successful so when did you
when did you stop
being bound by those sorts of
contractual obligations that were
directing you more in the specifically
commercial
Direction it's been probably six or
seven years at this point and and the
way that that began that relationship
began to unravel was for a long time I
played their game you know people think
Nashville Tennessee is that's all the
good country boys and girls you know and
um what they don't realize is is Music
Row Nashville Tennessee
it's owned by the same basically the
same big three companies that own
Hollywood it's Sony Universal and Warner
Brothers and between those big three
conglomerates you got 90% of every
record label wrapped up there so it's
the same
ideology of the Hollywood companies just
now in Nashville and so because of that
the president's those labels the head of
theirr departments now not all of them
but most of them that are in charge it
was coming down to me that hey we really
don't want you to go on that Network we
really don't want you to talk about that
subject we really don't want you to post
about this hey John we need to have a
meeting uh this is too controversial and
I played that game with him for a while
because you know you got a lot on the
line there man I mean you've been
working at this your whole life uh
you've got records coming out you got
you got band and light guys and sound
guys and bus drivers and you know all
kinds of people's income depend on you
on you maintaining your career and so I
played that game for a little while but
at one point it got it got to the point
where I said you know what my two sons
were getting old enough to really start
paying attention to me they're 14 and 12
now at this point they were probably
seven and
nine and I said well what kind of
example is that for me to set for these
boys I mean I'm going to sit here and
rant and rail against the system and how
bad it is but then I'm going to shut my
mouth and put on my gear and walk down
to red carpet with these people and
still and go in here and do what they're
telling me to do so at that point I said
so my Integrity is for
sale and my freedom of speech apparently
is for sale it has a price tag because
that's the game I'm playing right now
and when my boys got old enough where I
realized they saw what I was doing it
hit me really hard man I mean really
hard because if it's this bad for me
what's it going to be like for my boys
when they grow up and leave they're
going to run right into the buz saw and
and their blueprint is well how did Dad
handle it
well Dad just rolled over and and kept
taking the paychecks what Dad did so I
guess that's the right way to do it I
said yeah we're not going to let that
happen so we broke away from that system
broke away from the record labels the
publishing companies and all those
levers of of power that exist over music
now because of that I've no I've never
had another hit song at country radio
I've never had another song that you
know blew up like that like like some of
our big career songs but the but the
inverse of that
is the the people out there the American
people that know I don't have that
system in place behind me anymore if I
give them content that strikes them
whatever that is if it moves them here
they come and I would say that I think
that the amount of support I have today
out there amongst just the general
public as compared to back when I had a
record deal has multiplied 3 or 400% I
mean I wouldn't go back for I wouldn't
go back for anything in the world never
and so as far as Freedom goes Dr
Peterson I've never been more free to do
what I want to do than I am right now
and I will say I will say that a song
like Revelation like I said before if I
still had a contract like that you guys
would have never heard it and and to me
that that is
disconnecting that is short circleing
what God's plan is for me and for the
abilities he's given me and the talent
and the and the opportunities he's given
me if I'm still connected to something
nasty record label that doesn't believe
in what I'm doing and what I'm saying
that can stop that well that had to go
away even though at the time I really I
I hated to lose it uh because I knew how
powerful that is and i' been in it my
whole life but it wasn't too long after
that m a matter of weeks that I realized
wow I'm actually free at this point I'm
actually a free man I can say whatever I
want sing whatever I want promote it
however I want to and that led to answer
your question from earlier that led to
yes my songwriting my Artistry and what
I want to do literally became wide open
at that point I could do whatever I
wanted to do which brought us to this
song
Revelation the problem with big tech
companies is that they don't just want
your money they want to know everything
about you shadowy data Brokers make a
living compiling detailed profiles of
your online activity and selling those
profiles to marketers and other
corporate interests that want to
influence you with targeted ads they're
not selling a product they're selling
you but you don't have to let them
there's a way to keep your browsing
history truly private and I use it every
day it's an app called
expressvpn one of the easiest ways for
data Brokers to track you is through
your device's unique IP address which
also reveals information about your
location expressvpn hides your IP
address which makes it much more
difficult for data Brokers to monitor
track and monetize your private online
activity expressvpn also encrypts 100%
of your network traffic to keep your
data safe from hackers when you're on
public Wi-Fi
expressvpn works on all your devices
phone laptop tablet you name it just tap
one button to turn it on and you're
protected it's that easy I use
expressvpn because I do not like the
idea of some big tech company profiting
off my personal data talk about a
violation of privacy protect your online
privacy today by visiting expressvpn.com
Jordan that's ex p svpn docomo and you
can get an extra 3 months free
expressvpn.com Jordan
okay okay okay so let me let me weave my
way through that a bit here so you
started by talking about the fact that
when you wrote the majority of the 2000
songs that you wrote you did have
commercial top 40 success in mind and
we're often commissioned specifically to
do that and we talked about the fact
that there can be real Artistry involved
in that now but then it sounds like the
addition
necessity to tow the party line let's
say started to put constraints on your
creative ability but also on your
conscience that began to plague you and
you said that one of the things that
plagued you about that in particular was
your sense that you were giving the
wrong message to your boys and they were
pretty young when you started thinking
about that so let me ask you two
questions about that the first is
what risks do see the reason that it
bothers me so much to see creative
people become ideologically possessed is
that the only thing that creative people
have is the genuine creativity of their
production right and that's really the
goose that lays the golden eggs and
that's rather a fragile Beast I mean
first of all most people don't have it
high level creativity is relatively rare
trait and
then it's it's easily crushed and it
only flourishes under some conditions
and one of the conditions it flourishes
under by all appearances is something
like Freedom right now you can you could
well you can maybe put a couple of
constraints on it as we discussed with
regards to your commercial aim but if
you keep piling on the the uh
impossibilities or the arbitrary
restrictions the arbitrary restrictions
then you risk doing yourself damage so
so two questions there like what did you
notice if anything happening to your
ability to write creatively under those
constraints and also like how did you
become aware for example that you
weren't setting a good example for your
boys and like how how did you discover
that or come to realize that so under
those constraints your your songwriting
at that point is is completely
superficial it's only to make a check
it's only to make a dollar it's only to
get a plaque it's only to further
yourself um which is highly superficial
to me and so when when when you start
talking about my two sons well man
that's as deep as you're going to get I
mean there's nothing more important than
that to me and so when I saw that that
the example I was setting and that they
were going to be following was
superficial in nature that wow dad's we
know Dad dad's a Real McCoy but dad's
willing to go superficial if it means he
keeps getting that money and getting
those those plaques that is no way to
live I'd rather you be completely broke
in your life poor as a church mouse but
have your Constitution about you and
have integrity about you and be a be a
real McCoy as we would call them in the
country I I'd much rather my boys be
that I don't care about them what they
do when it comes to financial stuff and
so turning that corner and getting
getting away from those shackles of of
what the industry was limiting me to
turn me loose I mean it turned me loose
for a minute it's almost like wait you
mean I can actually step over here and
nobody's going to pop me okay and so I
step over there well can I take another
step yep and nobody po me then as as far
as the industry nobody popped me now the
press and other people they come at me
all the time but the way I look at uh at
people attacking what I have to say is
it's validation that I hit the mark it's
validation that I said it correctly you
know if everybody likes what you have to
say you're not saying it correctly that
that's the way I've always thought and
that's the way I feel today so it it
loosened me up doctor in such a way that
I could I could I think be more of a
just a wide openen
instrument for whatever comes in that I
think's important that's been laid on me
that's important then I can make that
happen there's no guarantee it's going
to be a quote Success but I can make it
a reality that's all you can really ask
for I think about uh the Declaration of
Independence when it when it says we
have the rights to life liberty and the
pursuit of happiness it doesn't say we
have the right to be happy or the right
to be successful the right to be rich or
any of these other things says you have
the right to pursue happiness to go
after it the word pursuit in itself
means in motion that means happiness is
a moving Target we I'm sure you would
tell me if what's happiness to you in
your 20s 30s 40s 50s well it does change
as your life changes so those are the
principles that I look at and at the end
of the day I know who gave me the
ability to do it in the first place you
know I yielded to him a long time ago
and so if you're yielded to him to the
Lord and then he he knows that you're
willing to run through a door that he
opens for you he'll give you stuff he'll
he'll send you things and uh Revelation
is one of those things okay so a couple
of questions about that the first one is
you I guess I have three questions
really
like what gave you the sense that you
were leading your boys astray I mean
they were very very young and the sorts
of things that you're talking about are
relatively subtle and so was it guilt on
your part or was it something that you
think they could actually see or was it
something that you were afraid they were
going to be able to see you know like I
I I'm not clear about the actual details
but what was plaguing your conscience
now I I can understand that you were
increasingly
uncomfortable with the constraints on
your free speech and obviously that's at
least in part because those constraints
pose a danger to your creative ability
but I still don't quite exactly
understand how it was that you became
convinced that you were setting the
wrong wrong model let's say for your
sons what do you think it was that they
were
seeing was it reflected in the way you
were talking to them or or in a
bitterness like what what what was going
on yeah well I think we've all found
ourselves watching the evening news and
going can you believe these people can
you believe what's going on in our
country right now or you know they'd
over hear me talking my wife about can
you believe what this record label is
doing or I just got in trouble for doing
an interview with this guy and they're
he they're hearing these things but then
I'll I'll gear back up and walk right
back out there and go play ball with the
exact same people that I've been yelling
at at the house that's called being a
hypocrite that is the essence of being a
hypocrite which is probably the worst
thing you could be I mean even in the
Bible it says I'd rather you be hot or
be cold but if you're lukewarm I'll spit
you out of my mouth that was that was
from the the Son of God himself said
that so you do not want to be lukewarm
you if you're going to be a bad guy be a
real bad guy if you're going to be a
good guy be a really good guy don't
don't be in the middle there's a lot of
fence Riders and so I felt like just
looking at myself I'm trying to ride the
fence here with this deal and I I'm
commanded to not do that and so knowing
my boys were on the edge of really
starting to maybe put those things
together bothered me but what bothered
me at that moment was knowing I was
bothered by it I realized that's who I
had become come and that that's the game
I was playing and I'm not really much of
a game player as you can probably tell
so I said yeah I think I'm going to exit
this game now I know that means I got to
let go of what I've been doing for 25
years at a high level in this town and I
don't know what's what what I'm going to
be able to grab on to when I let go of
this one I'm in freef fall for a while
but
hey you got it so uh make something make
something uh be there that I can grab on
to and he certainly did so that that's
really how it played out I was bothered
by it it was bothering my conscience and
my spirit was upset by it and you know
if you can't if you can't sleep well at
night because you know you're being a
hypocrite you better fix that yeah well
you see that that's very interesting
observation because I've just written a
new book called we who wrestle with God
and it comes out November 12th and what
it it's a it's a journey through the
characterizations of God in 10 Old
Testament stories about 10 there's uh
there's some fores into New Testament
material but I'm saving most of that for
another book and God is characterized in
these stories at least in part in two
ways and one is as the spirit of what
calls to you so grabs your interest
compels you forward it fills you with
enthusiasm makes you want to move
towards a goal makes you want to hit the
target properly and the other another
characterization is the constraints of
conscience you know and I I think about
this biologically and instinctively too
the because I think the thing that those
things
dovetail um it looks to me like
conscience the voice of conscience is
something like the voice of the longest
possible term game so you could imagine
that in your situation there's two
forces that are striving in side of you
and one is the forces that say maintain
your relationship with what's
essentially highlevel Commercial Success
that comes at the price of pleasing the
marketplace and also not displeasing the
people who control your access to that
and that's not nothing as you pointed
out but then your conscience comes up
and it's saying something like yeah but
you might be giving up something more
important here and you don't want to do
that because that's a bad long-term game
bad for you bad for your kids bad for
society it's a bad social game too and
if you play the longer term game you
might pay a short-term price right
that's the price you pay for speaking
your mind when there's a certain amount
of pressure against doing so but it's an
unbeatable long-term game in my
estimation if your conscience is clean
now you said something interesting
though too from the Practical
perspective you know two things you said
that you let go of a sure thing although
you were paying a price for that but
what you gained in consequence were two
things you
gained uh an increase in creative
freedom that was at least in part
unexpected right that you could now make
foray into
various in various directions that you
had hesitated To Tread on before I was
kind of wondering about how that might
have made itself manifest musically you
know because you can imagine that you
might have been restricting yourself
with regard to the content of the lyrics
but you might have also been restricting
yourself with regard to the plethora of
musical forms that you might introduce
into your music like one of the things
that strikes me about your music is that
you know you you cover a very wide range
of genres so I'm curious about whether
your willingness to detach yourself from
the dictates of the politicizing
Marketplace increased your musical
creativity as well as your lyrical
creativity and then what was there was
one other thing oh yes the other thing
you said was that the other Advantage
was that you established a more genuine
connection with your audience and so
let's take those apart step by step so
the first thing is when you freed
yourself and you stop being in your own
words a hypocrite what happened to you
on the music creative side as well as
the lyrically creative side and then
let's talk about why the effect that had
on your audience and why you think that
happened do you know what a Tennessee
Walking Horse
is no what's a Tennessee Walking Horse
go go look that up after we get through
talking so a Tennessee Walking Horse is
a big powerful Black Horse and they
start these horses off when they're
Colts and they put these really heavy
weights on on their front on their front
two feet and they make those horses walk
with those for years and years and years
and years even when they're adults but
when they want the Tennessee Walking
Horse to do what the Tennessee Walking
Horse is known for they take the weights
off the feet of the horse and they get
up and they Spruce the horse up and the
Tennessee Walking Horse walks like this
and their front feet are just going up
and down and it's the one of the most
impressive things you've ever seen and
it's because they finally took the
shackles off that horse and that horse
is like look at me now and the rest of
the time the horse is like man I wish
wish somebody to get this weight off my
feet I can't I'm not doing what I'm
capable of doing please get these off
and then they do I think it's possibly
somewhat cruel honestly to do that to
those horses but the same thing would be
how I felt is that yeah I could still
just like the horse I could still walk I
could still run you're just weighed down
with it and so the second you break away
from that and that the chains and the
shackles are broken now now you're free
you almost don't know what to do with it
for a little while because you're not
used to being able to do what want to do
and say what you want to say without
somebody trying to restrain you and so
what that does on the creative Side and
being a musici you know this can you
imagine what that does I mean once you
finally figure out I can I can write a
song like Revelation if I want to like
if that's something that hits me hard I
can write that and I can actually put
that out yes you can actually do that
and so you know you got to know this
that when you go look at Jesus Christ
and what he talked about he talked a lot
about Freedom he talked a lot about it
he talked about the truth he talked
about Freedom um and he says the truth
will set you free I mean what a
statement that is the truth will set you
free so if you look at my situation was
I living truthfully at that point when I
was when I was Shackled down no I wasn't
because I was playing a game I was I was
living a hypocritical existence at that
point that's not truthful so the second
I was able to be totally truthful and
come on with it exactly how wanted to do
it which was that's the truth here comes
the freedom part they they they coexist
the truth and the freedom the truth will
set you free and so that's where I find
myself currently is that we're speaking
the truth and I've never been more free
in my life now it doesn't mean it's it's
easy and that everybody likes it it
doesn't say that at all but it does say
those two things absolutely coexist so
what you're seeing in this song
Revelation and what's happening with
that song right now is a is a result of
the truth will set you free
right right okay so that well that makes
sense to me it also psychologically
makes sense to me too because you know
you describe the appearance of that song
sort of as a unit and also as a surprise
and because thought and Imagination
serves aim I was very curious about what
must have or might have transformed in
your aim to make that sort of thing
possible the song is reminiscent to me
of two other songs that I really like uh
it's reminiscent of a song democracy by
Leonard Co which is a very revelatory
song I mean Leonard con had a lot of
revelatory songs but that's definitely
one of them and uh Johnny Cash recorded
a great song When the Man Comes Around
which is that's a deadly song I don't
know where the hell that came from I
mean that's a that's a killer Johnny
Cash wasn't playing around with that
one no that's for sure no that that's
for sure that's a definitely hair stands
up on the back of your neck uh song and
that's that's actually by the way that
feeling of having your hair stand up on
the back of your neck that's pyo
erection so the reason that happens at
least biologically the reason that
happens is for the same reason that a
cat puffs up when it sees a big dog
right it's a it's a it's an instinctual
reaction to something that inspires
awe and so and people who are high in
openness which is a dimension of
creativity are much more likely to
experience that particular phenomena and
it is a phenomena that emerges when
people are in the presence of something
that inspires awe so that's very that's
very cool that's another place where the
biology and the Divinity seem to unite
okay now all right so we got we got that
established so you changed what you were
aiming at now you said that that's put
you in touch with your audience in a
different way and also in a way where
where a lot has come to you in
consequence right it's been a positive
thing so walk me through that what's
changed what's changed in how you treat
your audience what's changed in how your
audience treats you what's that meant
commercially on tour what's that meant
in terms of how you're promoting and
presenting your music in the New Media
landscape well I think we all realize
now regardless of your politics or
anything else that we are being lied to
have been lied to and will continue to
be lied to this entire time your entire
life you've been swimming in a sea of
either lies or or contorted versions of
the truth and people know that now they
really have woken up to this I think I
think uh when covid rolled through and
we saw and busted them on a lot of their
lives people just were in shock that
these these people actually would lie to
us like that and they all realize that
now so to answer your question they know
I'm not lying to them and they know when
they hear that song for instance
Revelation you don't write that
song A as a as an angle as a lie as an
angle as a maneuver as a way to have a
hit I mean really I mean who would do
that it makes no sense to even do that
so they know that what I'm telling them
in my music and also what I what I talk
about in interviews like this one we're
doing right now they know I have
absolutely nothing to gain from saying
those things nothing nothing this world
is gonna is g to bestow upon me thank
you John for singing about Revelation
thank you John for talking about
spiritual warfare or thank you for doing
all this that's never going to happen
it's quite the opposite of that so I I
think my audience has uh has grown
because they know uh I'm not lying to
them they they know that if I say it I
mean it it's an authentic position and I
won't back up off of it because they see
me get banged up pretty good you go on
social media and read the comments it's
it's pretty nasty as I'm sure it is for
you sometimes but you keep coming and
and and the the bigger point of that
is when you
do what the Lord tells you to do and it
is a difficult thing to do but you do it
anyway he's told us time and time again
in the word if you'll do what I tell you
to do go where I tell you to go and be
who I told you to be if you'll do those
things the world's going to hate you a
lot of them are going to hate you but
I'm going to reward you and you'll get
your reward whenever you get it but
trust me it's coming so there's your
marching orders now that's that's a
tough set of rules because that is an
uncomfortable position just as a human
being to step into those things but my
position is uh I fear him a lot more
than I fear them you know there's a a
scripture that says do not fear the one
who can only kill your body fear the one
who can kill your body and kill your
soul fear Him fear the Creator Feel the
fear the alpha the Omega fear fear him
and that is who I fear and so uh even
though it's an uncomfortable thing
sometimes or a nerve-wracking thing to
come with something like Revelation and
then do an interview like this where
we're talking about it uh it it's a lot
less scary to do that than than not
doing what he told me to do
do when a woman experiences an unplanned
pregnancy she often feels alone and
Afraid too often her first response is
to seek out an abortion because that's
what left leaning institutions have
conditioned her to do but because of the
generosity of listeners like you that
search may lead her to a pre-born
network Clinic where by the grace of God
she'll choose life not just for her baby
but for herself pre-born offers God's
love and compassion to hurting women and
provides a free ultrasound to introduce
them to the life growing inside them
this combination helps women to choose
life and it's how pre-born saves 200
babies every single day thanks to the
Daily wires partnership with pre-born
we're able to make our powerful
documentary choosing life available to
all on dailywire plus join us in
thanking pre-born for bringing this
important work out from behind our pay
wall and consider making a donation
today to support their life-saving work
you can sponsor one ultrasound for just
$28 if you have the means you can
sponsor pre-born entire network for a
day for $5,000 make a donation today
just dial pound 250 and say the keyword
baby that's pound 250 baby or go to
preborn
docomo that's preborn
docomo right right well that's
interesting that's very interesting you
know um people
often compliment me on my bravery let's
say hey and uh that doesn't sit very
well with me fundamentally because that
that's not actually accurate it's I'm
just afraid of different
things so for example like I I spent a
lot of time studying totalitarianism
like a lot of time I spent half my life
likely for 40 years
studying the psychology of
totalitarianism and what that meant for
me was by the psychology of
totalitarianism I was very interested in
what it was like to participate in a
totalitarian state to let that take you
over
and totalitarian States take you over
by requiring your submission to the LIE
like we like to think of a totalitarian
state as a state where an evil
charismatic leader like Stalin or Hitler
or ma takes over the state and forces
otherwise Freedom loving people to B the
knee and and shut their mouths but
that's not how it works what happens is
that a society starts to become
possessed by lies and then everyone
starts to lie and eventually everyone
lies about absolutely everything they're
saying and doing to everyone including
themselves and everyone they love 100%
of the time and that's hell and if you
know that then you're way more afraid of
that than of anything else
because there isn't anything worse than
that including death H and there's
plenty of death that accompanies it too
and so part of being willing to abide by
the truth let's say is getting your
fears in order I kind of think that's
what Christ means in the gospels when he
says get thee behind me Satan it's
something like you want to have your
fear it's more than this but it's
fear behind you pushing you forward in
in the right direction rather than your
fear in front of you stopping you and
making you cowardly it doesn't mean you
get rid of the fear but it's put in the
right place now I'm curious about
something here that's quite personal
like you made a comment earlier about
yielding and then obviously you're
motivated by religious considerations
and so and then you talked more
specifically in our last
about our last exchange about um the
truth setting you free and also you
being afraid of the judge of your soul
let's say more afraid of that than
afraid of public opinion or loss of
financial stability or
opportunity how did you come to these
conclusions and
when well when I was a kid uh my dad has
been my dad's been preaching since he
was about 19 he's now in his early
70s uh preaches in a lot of Prisons my
dad did a lot of street preaching now
you want to talk about a you want to
talk about a challenge my dad hit about
34 Marty GRS in a row standing on the
French Quarter as the parades are coming
by got a guitar around his neck and a
little speaker standing next to him and
he's singing and he's preaching and the
ridicule coming back at him was like a
tidal wave and I I've asked him why did
you keep standing there letting them do
that to you and he said because about
one out of a hundred of them would stop
and ask me what I was talking about and
then I had a chance to witness to that
person on the street and he goes the
reason I'm not in some big church
somewhere is because the people that
really need to hear it are never going
to walk into one of those Church
buildings they're out there in the world
they're stuck behind bars they're at
they're at Marty Gro they're at wherever
they are so his calling was to go to
where they are go out there in the
middle of it and do it you talk about a
courage I mean that's something else and
so I come from that you got to
understand that uh if you look at Jesus
Christ himself he went to where the
people were he had a real problem with
the Pharisees and the Sadducees the
religious Elite of his day he had a real
problem with them and they had obviously
had a real problem with him too and so
he would speak the truth and he was he
was performing Miracles he was drawing
big crowds and man it was driving them
crazy because what are we going to do
with this Jesus guy you know and so if
you follow the example of what he said
we are supposed to speak the truth and
go out boldly and speak it knowing that
they're not going to like it matter of
fact he said if if if if they persecute
me what do you think they're going to do
to you and he says rejoice when you're
persecuted for bearing my name not have
a grin on your face or clap your hands
Rejoice like be exuberant when you are
persecuted for bearing my name Jesus
Christ saying this I mean
that's quite a thing to ask people to do
that run that runs counter to the entire
Human Condition but that's the point
that's the point you can't do those
things on your own doctor you can't I
can't do it my dad can't do it Billy
Graham couldn't do it anybody you want
to name it's humanly impossible on your
own speed to do those things but when
you accept Jesus and you really do and I
use the word yield on purpose with you
to it knowing knowing that Jesus existed
know knowing all those things well the
devil knows those things the devil's
been battling him for Millennia you know
you think he's going to heaven I don't
think so knowing it is one thing but
yielding your will turning yourself over
turning over all authority to him as it
refers to it in the New Testament as
basically being a bonder servant to him
like you you become his property at that
point where your will no longer matters
what what you're aspirations are do not
matter uh if you get to that point
that's what that's what an actual saved
person is okay well I got some more
questions about that so you said that
one of the influences on you was your
father and so I presume that you
respected and admired your father and so
we could talk about that because that's
an important detail but then I'm also
curious about two other things like how
do you distinguish between doing your
will let say and pursuing the path of
truth how do you distinguish between
those two you know I think it was St
Paul who said that we have to test the
spirits to see if they're of God right
and it's I suppose you might say that
there's a certain proportion of
religious Hypocrites who truly believe
perhaps truly believe who certainly have
told themselves and tell other people
that they're walking the straight and
narrow path even though they're not
um you know they're deception can reach
very deeply into people's hearts and so
I'm curious what it means to you okay
why
exactly you admired what your father was
doing and what other sources of
Revelation LED you to the religious
realizations that you had I'm curious
about how you know the difference
between your will and what should be
done right what's the prayer to do the
father's will on on Earth as it is in
heaven that's different than pursuing
your own short-term interests but that
doesn't mean I mean you can be deluded
about that so how do you know how do you
test your own motivation to determine
whether what you're doing is truthful or
just another snare of deception see I I
think I think one place with respect
that I think you you are wrong on this
subject and that you miss it is that you
think human beings have the capability
to Divine between decide between left
right truth lie all these things that
are going on and we're just not capable
of it I mean we are I'll put it to you
this way the I am not looking at the
real Jordan Peterson I'm looking at what
Jordan Peterson lives in for a while
you're not looking at John Rich I just
live in this thing for a while the real
Jordan Peterson lives forever he's an
eternal being he was created by the
Creator and he was put in that body that
you're in right now to last as long as
it's going to last and then that body is
going to die and then the real Jordan is
released from that body same way it goes
for me so the only way a human being can
discern what is true and what is a lie
is you better have Jesus inside of you
because he's the ultimate truth so when
things come at you that are lies which
is every single day including lies you
might tell yourself or make yourself
think something that's not true have a
notion about something and it seems
really strong you ask him is that true
like am I thinking about this right and
you pray about it and you go if this is
wrong man don't let me do that you know
put me in the right spot even though it
seems totally obvious that I should do
this in my own eyes and he will but the
only way that works is if you have
yielded to him turned over the entire
control to him become a bonder servant
to him he's the ultimate truth if a lie
comes into contact with the ultimate
truth which one is more powerful at that
point is the truth more powerful than
the LIE of course it is we it's the
ultimate power is the real truth so if
you've got the real truth living in you
which is not something you have on your
own we're inherently evil doctor we are
born into sin sin is anything that is
less than Perfection you don't have to
be a murderer to be a sinner you don't
have to be something terrible to be a
sinner anything less than absolute
perfection in the eyes of the Lord is
sin so we are sin we are in a continual
state of it and you can't escape it but
the only way you're able to navigate
through that and and go to heaven when
you die is that you brought the Son of
God you've asked him to come in and
turned over your will to him and so when
when this body that I have to live in
here for a while finally kicks the
bucket and I'm out of here and I take
off and I stand before the ultimate
judge before the Father the Son the Holy
Spirit you're standing there looking at
them they're not looking at nasty old
John rich in his sinful form he sees his
son he sees his own son there because
you you invited him in you gave your
will over to him and that's who he sees
well you think he's going to let his son
into heaven well of course because you
belong to him that's what it means to be
a child of him he's going to let his
kids come on in Perfection is not even
anything you can shoot at matter of fact
understanding that that you live in a
constant state of
imperfection that's the point and for
human beings and psychologists and
anybody else to go well there's a moral
compass blah nonsense humans don't have
the
capability in my opinion on their own to
be moral we are inherently immoral we
were put in these situations to as a
test even if you live to be 200 years
old it's just like that he takes
something that is eternal which is your
spirit in my spirit he takes an eternal
situation places it in a very very
temporary badly made very flawed human
body and then the whole entire world has
turned loose on us we can make any
decision is we want to make and the
toughest one we have to make is to give
up our own control over to the one that
created us in the first place okay so
that that's the question that's the
that's the place I'd like to drill down
into two things so one more practical
which is when you were deciding to move
away from the studio and record label
life how did you come to the
determination you you mentioned prayer
but how did you come to determine to
determine that that was the appropriate
path that it wasn't just another form of
ego game let's say I know I know you
said it said part of it well why would
anyone do that there's a big risk in it
and obviously so there's an obvious
sacrificial component to that which
speaks of its truth but I'm really
interested in the details and then the
other the other issue that I'm that I'm
curious about
is when you talk about prayer and you're
using using your prayer to discern the
truth let's say what is it that you're
praying for that enables you to to
benefit from that discernment what a
great question so the Holy Spirit it
says in the Bible that he will send to
his children H the real ones the ones
that have turned it over to him that he
will send the Holy Spirit to help you
and guide you and navigate for you you
have to ask for that you have to say you
know you pray and say please send the
Holy Spirit to me because I can't figure
this out I'm having trouble I don't know
what to do what am I supposed to do
right now you ask for that and he will
send it and then in your in your being
you feel if something is if I'm making a
wrong move make am I supposed to go left
right straight or not move at all or
step back which one am I supposed to do
it will become very clear to you it's
called discernment we're told we're
commanded multiple times if you read
proverbs you read what King David wrote
discernment was everything I mean that's
like King so King Solomon asked for that
King Solomon asked for wisdom and
discernment he wanted to be able to
discern because it's the hardest thing
for a human being to do how do I know
how do I know what I'm supposed to do
and if you're only relying on your own
physical self to figure that out you're
never going to get it right ever you're
never going to get it right and so the
holy spirit that that's who comes in and
he that is the discernment that you're
asking for now he may not tell you the
second you asked for it but if you ask
for it and you're serious about it and
you that's what you really want he'll
send it to you and you'll get it and so
I think to your conversation about the
music industry and all that stuff I
could feel it I could feel he was
telling me it's time for you to get out
of here bud time to go time to go and he
was things like my kids reacting to
things my wife reacting to things me
personally reacting to things that was
his way of going ding ding ding ding
ding pay attention John time for you to
move I know you've been doing this your
whole life I know this was your American
dream I know this is what you think you
were built to do and maybe you were for
a period of time I got something else
for you to do and it's going to hurt a
little bit but rip and pull you pull you
away from it and then put you on the
path he wants it's like do you know what
repentance is I'll give you a great
analogy for for repentance um repentance
is let's say I'm driving down a road and
I look over there on the side of the
highway and there's Jesus Christ
standing there on the side of the
highway and he needs a ride and I go
that's Jesus standing on the side of the
highway so you pull over and you roll
down the window and you go hey Jesus
come on in you need a ride and instead
of him getting in on the passenger side
he walks around to your window knocks on
the window and says scoot over and so
you do and he takes the steering wheel
and does a uturn and now he's driving
the car and he takes you wherever he
wants to take you that's what repentance
actually is it's like what's the
difference between belief and faith
you know you're sitting in a chair right
now I'm sitting in a chair right now
only reason we're sitting in these
chairs is because first of all we walked
up to the chairs and we looked at them
and we believe those chairs would hold
us up look like a pretty good chair
pretty strong chair I believe that chair
will hold me up but until we sat down in
the chairs that we're sitting in right
now we didn't have faith that the chair
would hold us up that's the difference a
lot of people in the world believe in
Jesus they believe he's real they they
believe he existed they believe they
read the Bible and they go okay yeah I
mean I believe that but so does the
devil so does every demon that ever
existed every they they all believe in
Jesus do they have faith in Jesus now
that's a h totally different question do
they lean on him do they rest on him do
they give their give their own security
up I gave my security up for this chair
I'm sitting in right now you got to give
your security up all the way around to
him and you'll never get it right it it
it is a constant struggle because you
you always want to grab the reins and
pull it back that's just your your
nature so it's a constant exercise of
letting you you're going to grab and go
ah okay I'll let it go again it's a
constant constant uh
position starting a business can be
tough but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is here to help you grow
our marketing team uses Shopify every
day to sell our merchandise and we love
how easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions with
Shopify customize your online store to
your style with flexible templates and
Powerful tools alongside an endless list
of Integrations and thirdparty apps like
on demand printing accounting and chat
Bots Shopify helps you turn browsers
into buyers with the internet's best
converting checkout up to 36% better
compared to other leading e-commerce
platforms no matter how big you want to
grow Shopify gives you everything you
need to take control and take your
business to the next level sign up for a
$1 per month trial period at shopify.com
jbp all lowercase go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp how much of your decision to leave
the say traditional commercial confines
of the music industry behind how much of
that dovetailed with the development of
your faith I mean did those occur at the
same time or what what's the or is it an
constant sort of unfolding what's the
sequence there because I'm still curious
about why you decided to you made a very
important distinction there it says in
the gospels Christ says to his followers
that not everyone who says Lord Lord
will enter the kingdom of heaven and
what he means by that at least in part
is the mere proclamation of a conscious
belief is not sufficient to to ensure
redemption or salvation it has a lot
more to do with let's say putting your
money where your mouth is and and that's
the faith that you described you used
the analogy of of the The Hitchhiker and
the and the passenger and the driver
right to to let something that isn't
your narrow self-interest take control
well you
obviously made a decision when you
decided to say and create what you
needed to say and create instead of
staying within the confines of your
contractual obligations and how is that
related to the Revelation or the
development of your faith well listen
there was a long time that you know the
story of the prodal son I'm sure you
know that one well well man I was the em
I was the embodiment of that I mean
imagine what my dad the street preacher
who had been to marra 34 times must have
thought when he sees his young son
saying I'm not going to go to college
I'm going to go out on the road and play
in places I'm not even old enough to be
in all over the United States because I
want to have a career in country music
can you imagine what my dad must have
thought I mean and then to make matters
worse I was really successful at it and
I lived that lifestyle for a very long
time very long time and and at one point
it got to the point I think I had upset
the boss so bad because I knew what the
truth was I was just going ah some other
time I'm busy doing what I want to do I
upset him so bad I remember I was
sitting in a hotel
room and felt like I got
abandoned I I felt like all of a sudden
I could feel like something left the
room like completely unprotected at all
like like the Lord just walked out of
the room he had had enough okay you you
know what to do you're gonna call your
own shots good luck with that buddy like
that
and walked out of the room and I felt it
like a like ice water rolling down your
back you could feel it and that
persisted for several months and I I it
it was horrible matter of fact in Psalms
David writes about that a lot about he
said I I cry out to you but you don't
answer you know because David did a lot
of things wrong I he did some really bad
stuff that he had to repent for and come
back from but stuff that his punishment
was God just left him standing there
just left him and so I felt that I felt
that many years ago and I didn't want to
ever feel that again and so I realized
at that point okay it's it's time to
it's time to put this nonsense away and
and go be who I'm supposed to be
because otherwise what's the point of
how old were you how old were you when
that happened I was in my late
30s oh yeah oh yeah so you'd been on the
road a long time by that been on the
road a long time by then yeah I
certainly had you know people say well
I'm a good person I'm a good person I'm
going to go to heaven I'm a good person
I I feed the Homeless I I give money to
charity I'm whatever I go to church
every Sunday I'm a good person the
problem with that is if you believe that
the words of the Bible are true which I
do it says all your righteousness is as
filthy rags in the sight of God meaning
there is no such thing as a good person
none of us are good nobody not even the
ones that wrote the books of the Bible
they're not good either the only good in
any of us is him it's like we talked
about earlier how do you discern how do
you discern what a lie is the only way
you can discern what a lie is is to put
it up against the actual truth when you
put it up against the actual truth it's
obviously a lie at that point and Jesus
Christ said I am the way the truth and
the life and no man come to the father
except by me he said that so there you
go so if you really want to know what
the truth is you got to to bang those
lies up against him there's a lot of
people that that get in these
comfortable positions and I think that
the churches in America are largely to
blame for it that they will not preach
what I would call the hard parts of the
Bible they will not preach the parts
that prick the hearts of the people that
are sitting in those pews they won't say
the things that make them uncomfortable
they want to keep the church full they
want to keep the offering Plates Full
they want the money to keep coming right
but that doesn't work it's well
ultimately certainly not working in
Europe that's for sure well no I mean
the churches still have some people in
the US but the the Christian church is
having a hell of a time in most of the
West and I think it is in part because
the demands aren't high enough on the
people who are attending well they're
not the road's being made too easy yeah
they're not they're not preaching and
teaching things that convict people that
make them have to step up to the plate
and realize oh wow I'm not I'm not doing
what what Jesus wants me to do I'm not
living up to what he said I haven't
really given my will over to him I've
just been lip service this whole time
and feeling good about everything and
that is so dangerous doctor because when
your body dies and that spirit is cut
loose and the next thing you see is him
he's not going to care how many times
you went to church he's not going to
care how much Academia or or or
intellectualism or or any kind of things
that you applied to him and what he said
he's not going to care all he's going to
do is say do you belong to me or not did
you ever yield to me did you turn
yourself over to me or not and there's a
lot of people going to be disappointed
when that day happens and and that is a
dangerous thing for people there's so
many people with so much potential in
this world that have swallowed that lie
and swallowed versions of it and they
they put themselves in a state of of
being comfortable about it and go you
know I think I'm good I think I'm good
yeah I checked my IRS man I I gave a lot
of money last year to charity I'm good
I'm I'm good with them that's what they
think that is not how that's going to
work and so the reason people are so
afraid to turn their will over to to
become a bonder servant to Jesus
Christ is because it scares him to death
because
because I'm I'm used to
controlling I'm in control of what's
going on and to turn that over to him
he's going to control what I'm doing
well what's he going to do how am I
going to change what's my life going to
be like at that point it scares them to
death and a lot of people have have a
lot of builtup barriers around them a
lot a lot of people as you well know
were abused when they were a kid for
instance they were treated terribly they
were abused some some people Abus so bad
you wouldn't even mention it in this
interview it's so horrible it's going on
right now and you're talking about an
epidemic of this has happened and a lot
of people then WRA themselves and
various things to protect themselves
from from anybody ever being able to get
to them again including the Son of God
including him they don't want to give it
over to anybody because it scares them
too much to think about what would that
be like I actually I actually watched uh
I watched a lot of your a lot of your
stuff and there was one time it it said
it was three years ago I don't know if
that's accurate or not but I actually I
actually wrote down what you said and I
wondered if you let me quote you for a
minute oh can I quote you in our in your
it's your interview can I quote you okay
hey man go right ahead go ahead I
appreciate that all right this is this
is Dr Jordan Peterson here a quote from
him what you have in the figure of
Christ is the actual person who actually
lived plus a myth and in some sense
Christ is the union of those two
things the problem is that I probably
believe that but I'm amazed at my own
belief and I don't understand it because
I've seen that sometimes the objective
world and the narrative World
touch that's Union synchronicity and
I've seen that many times in my own life
and so in some sense I believe it's
undeniable you know we have a narrative
sense of the world for me that's been
the world of morality that's the world
that tells us how to act it's real we
treat it like it's real it's not the
objective world but sometimes the Nar
ative and the objective World
touch and the ultimate example of that
in principle is supposed to be
Christ and that seems to me oddly
plausible but I still don't know what to
make of it partly because it's too
terrifying of a reality to fully believe
I don't know what would even happen to
you if you fully believed
it yeah yeah so what struck me about
that when I heard you say that
was was the terrified part because to me
I would think it'd be the greatest thing
in the world if Jesus is who the Bible
says he is if that is
true then you should go running straight
to him because he controls heaven and
hell he created the universe he's the
alpha the Omega he is he is the way the
truth and the life he's every answer you
ever wanted to have
every answer to every question he is the
ultimate he he loves you more than
anybody will ever love you he created
you you you are his creation the last
thing he wants to see happen to you is
for you to go and follow the other way
and wind up in eternity separated from
him so I I had I know it's your
interview but I wanted to ask you what
terrifies you about the notion that
Jesus might be who the Bible actually
says he
is well it's been as you pointed out a
number of years since I said those
things and I know more and understand
more than I did when I said those words
um I've I've
reconceptualized my perspective I
suppose or deepened it
partly as a consequence of writing these
new books because I I have three books
finished and one of them is coming out
soon and they're all analysis of the
biblical
narratives this is something we can talk
about in relationship to what happened
to you after you decided to leave the
confines of the safe confines let's say
of the music industry see I started to
understand in the story of Abraham for
example God comes to Abraham as the
voice of
Adventure right because Abraham is an
old man by the time God shows up and
he's living in comfort and he has
everything you might need if all you
wanted to be is a satiated infant and
God is really what calls Abraham out
into the world and he has the whole
catastrophic adventure of his life right
he encounters famine and totalitarianism
and War and malevolence and the
destruction of cities and the necessity
to offer up even his own son I mean
Abraham's life is quite the spectacular
catastrophe and
that what would you say the
religious injunction the deepest
religious injunction is to have exactly
that catastrophe of Adventure and
there's no real limit to that and that's
part of what's terrifying you know you
you said if the terror wasn't there that
Holy Terror in a sense you wouldn't have
had any compunctions about giving up
your contractual relationships and the
financial stability and the fame that
that offered right you already had that
it's there's a there's a terror in
letting that go let's say and only doing
what what would you say what you're
commanded to do or what you're invited
to do by the spirit of the truth but the
payoff is an adventure that's so
disproportionately greater than whatever
you would have gained by staying with
your what would you say your hedonistic
comfort that they're not even in the
same universe and that is it's the kind
of Terror so you know when God casts
Adam and Eve out of the garden or when
they separate themselves from God God
puts a sword to Bar the way back to the
Eternal garden and this the sword is on
fire and it turns every which way and
what that means is that it's a sword
that cuts and burns away everything that
isn't worthy of being in the kingdom of
heaven and everything that's not worthy
is a lot and there's a terror there's a
terror in being subjected to that even
though it's a necessary sub subjugation
it's the most necessary of subjugations
and so so what's the bigger gamble
though I mean what's the bigger terror
is the bigger Terror that is the
question that in In This Very temporary
body that we sit in this very short span
of time we have to live in it that we
don't that he's going to take over and
he's going to burn and cut and move
things off of us and by the way for
everything he burns and cut cuts off he
adds back by the way okay that he he
adds things on where he cut things off
oh more much more multiples of it is it
a bigger Terror to undergo that process
or to roll all the way through your life
and the second your heart stops and your
eyes open up you're standing in front of
him and you knew the truth and you
rejected the truth and now what now he
says depart from me depart from me I
never knew you and then it's Eternal
Terror then it's Eternal Terror forever
and ever and there's no coming back you
don't get a second chance at that that's
the ultimate Terror so I would I would
ask you one more question if if use the
word if
here for
you if
Jesus is truly who the Bible says he is
he is the creator he is the one who
exists and creates existence
which is how he's defined he is the
Alpha and the Omega he holds the keys to
life and death to heaven and
hell if he is that
person would you ever turn your life
over to him if you truly believed he was
would you turn your life over to him
well if you truly believe that turning
your life over to him under those
conditions would be exactly the same as
believing it belief isn't as you already
pointed out belief isn't a set of
statements about what you believe to be
true it's a way of living well but I'm
already outlined what that way of living
is well but I'm asking you as just as as
one of the most I would say one of the
smartest guys in the world one of the
most intellectual people alive today
it's why people watch you someone like
yourself if you if you became absolutely
convinced yes that's real wow it it is
terrifying it is Terri but you said if
you told him I am turning my life over
to you do what you will with me and you
really did that
if if you were if if you were willing to
do that um I already did that what a
situation long time ago you did I did
that a long time ago yeah so so how is
it that how is it that I know the truth
sets you free yeah I understand so so so
in your life in your life it's not the
doctor calling the
shots not when I'm oriented
properly what orients you
holy
Terror look I'm I'm trying to say the
things that I believe serve the
truth like and I have reason for that
like because I know the I know what the
alternative is if the Alternatives Bleak
like Bleaker than you can imagine and so
step carefully that's my presumption and
hope and pray that you're careful enough
to
walk the straight narrow path but but
it's impossible you can't do that I
can't do it you can't do it oh I
understand I understand what you mean I
don't take any issue with what you've
said yeah no I don't I don't think you
do and I'm I'm not trying to have an
issue I'm just speak no I understand
I've I've studied what you've been
saying and I know you look at the Bible
it seems at least very metaphorically
and and very intellectually you look at
it in those kinds of terms and at the
end of the day it's not it's not a
metaphor it's not intellectualism like
when when you die and you see him what's
he going to say to you what are you
going to say to
him I mean that's the ultimate question
that everybody watching this interview
is going to have to deal with everybody
it says every knee shall bow every
tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ
is Lord every knee including John rich
and Jordan Peterson and the Devil
Himself and everybody else every knee is
going to have to bow and so whether you
you believe that or not doesn't change
the fact that that is what is going to
happen and I I I happen to believe
because it says in the scripture that
the Lord reveals himself to every man
every man knows it he says I stand at
the door and knock and if any man hears
my voice and opens the door I'll come in
with him I'll sit down with him I'll
dine with him I'll have dinner with him
and he with me and so you hear him
knocking on that door and you walk up
you open it and you let him in that is
what that means you have invited him
into your house let's call your body
this is my house I invite him in he sits
down he becomes he's living in my house
now that's what that means it also says
he won't knock forever he will not knock
forever if you if you reject you said
you experienced that you experienced
that when you felt abandoned yep yep uh
he he won't knock Forever at some point
if you reject him long enough it says
he'll just turn you over to your desires
and go well we gave it a good shot move
on and brother you don't want to get to
that point so anybody watching this if
you feel him you feel him knocking at
the door open the door it's very simple
you don't need a preacher you don't need
a priest you don't need anybody that to
sit down with to give your life to Jesus
and go to heaven you don't need anybody
you can sit there all by yourself and
you can reach out to him you can give
your life to him right there anytime you
want to that's one problem with religion
you've used the word religious about me
there's nothing religious about me
religion religion in my opinion has
built these constructs where they make
people think you have to go confess your
sins to this person or you have to go
through a preacher you have to go
through some other Earthly sinful human
being I mean tell me where it says that
anywhere it doesn't doesn't say that
anywhere that's their way of of keeping
people under control making them come
through those doors they think if they
don't do it that way then they're not
going to get there and that's that's
another one of the big deceptions that
are out there it's why I don't I don't
like uh I don't like that old notion of
religion Jesus was not a religious
person the religious people persecuted
Jesus back in the day so it it's
important for people to know these
distinctions I mean you you can have
one-on-one with him he's right there
he's literally right there it's as
simple as that we we don't have to
intellectualize everything about him and
try to figure out every single nook and
cranny of every single word that he said
just go look at what he said he made it
real simple and again we're all going to
have to go to that point everybody's
going to die
everybody and the second you die it says
to be absent from the flesh is to be
present with God like boom just like
that and you're standing in front of the
boss and what are you g to say to him
what's he going to say to you that's the
only conversation any human being should
be concerned
about John that's probably a good time
to end this part of the conversation I
wanted to talk to you about the meaning
of the lyrics that you wrote down in
this song but I think we'll do that on
the daily wire side because that'll be a
good additional half an hour and this is
actually a very good time to end and so
I guess what I would say in closing to
what you said is that obviously you have
a specific
idea about what constitutes faith and
your faith and you use the metaphor of
the driver to lay that forward and that
seems to me to be a very good
representation of what constitutes Faith
because it does come down
to let's say who you invite in to take
charge exactly right that's not the same
as stating words of Faith right correct
so that's that's that's the whole point
doctor that's the whole point you said
the whole point right there exactly
right yeah well that's that's that's
what do you say that's the that's the
truth protection against religious
hypocrisy as well you know part of the
reason I'm loath in many ways to talk
about directly about what I believe
let's say is because I'm not really that
interested in taking credit for what I
believe you know what I mean for me it's
something to kind of hold secret because
it's not for public
display because the problem with public
display is that that's the pathway of
the
Pharisees and so it's it's dangerous to
to pray in public and to and to make
your case known in the streets let's say
so that's well that's what well but it
does say and I know you want to wrap up
so obviously we will but it does say go
out and preach the gospel to Every
Nation every human being out there and
now what the Pharisees and Sadducees did
look look how holy we are we're giv all
this money look at us we're we're we're
so benevolent we're so holy it says give
give your gifts in secret that's what
it's talking about when you make a
donation or you help somebody don't
advertise it all over the world he
doesn't appreciate that but when it
talks about go out and tell every body
about the truth of who I am and what the
Bible says and what the what the stakes
are the Eternal Stakes out here you are
supposed to go say that and and let me
tell you something dror as we rep you
you could be one of the most powerful
weapons in the hand of God that he ever
that he ever slung ever because of
because of the intellect that you have
because of the platform that you have
because of the millions of people and
what you've learn learned you've read
every word of the Bible you've dissected
it you know what it is and the day that
becomes absolutely life and death real
to you you sir could be one of the most
powerful human beings in my opinion That
Ever Walked the face of the
Earth well I think you'll like my new
book John looking forward to
it all right sir well thank you for the
conversation today and thank you and
thank you to everybody who's watching
and listening to and paying attention to
this and as I alluded to I'm going to
continue to talk to John for another
half an hour on the daily wire side and
I think we'll delve more into the lyrics
of his song Revelation since we've
uncovered the motivation behind the song
and also the preconditions for it to
make itself manifest you might say and
so uh yeah well it's complicated a how
these things come about and I'd also
like to talk to you a little bit more
about how it's been received so for
everybody who is watching and listening
you could join us on the daily wire side
to complete this conversation that give
you an opportunity to throw some support
their way too because uh at least in my
experience they are a platform that
promotes Free Speech uh they've left me
the hell alone to do exactly what it is
that I do and also enabled me to bring
most of it to people well on YouTube for
public consumption and which is a very
generous offer on the part of the
company so in any case you can join us
there if you're inclined to thank you
very much sir that was extremely
interesting and uh
yeah well thanks for uh for letting
everybody
know how you you know how you came to
the conclusions that you've come to and
what that's meant much appreciated thank
you for the opportunity I appreciate it
sir
[Music]